---
title:
    Joint Initiative Announced to Enhance KoBoToolbox for Data Collection and
    Analysis in Displacement Contexts
date: 29-11-2021
author: Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement (JDC) and KoBo Inc.
summary:
    KoBo Inc. and JDC have partnered to strengthen KoBoToolbox, part of JDC’s
    ongoing effort to strengthen data systems and fill data gaps in order to
    improve the lives of people affected by displacement.
thumbnail: /images/blog/UNHCR_survey_refugees_bangladesh.jpg
---

KoBo Inc. and the Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement (JDC), an initiative
established by the World Bank Group (WBG) and UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, have
partnered to strengthen KoBoToolbox. This collaboration is part of JDC’s ongoing
effort to strengthen data systems and fill data gaps, allowing stakeholders to
make evidence-informed decisions that can improve the lives of people affected
by displacement.

{% include image.liquid file="/images/blog/UNHCR_survey_refugees_bangladesh.jpg" caption="UNHCR staff surveys refugees in Bangladesh." type="full" %}

> "By supporting KoBoToolbox, the JDC continues to invest in effective solutions
> to promote forced displacement-sensitive data methods. Improving the quality
> of data collected is essential to better understand the socioeconomic
> situation of those forcibly displaced and hence allow for better
> policy-responses by host governments or development partners." -- Björn
> Gillsäter, Head of the JDC

Over the past decade, the global forced displacement crisis has increased in
scale, length, and complexity, resulting in substantial impacts to forcibly
displaced persons and host communities. The COVID-19 pandemic has only
contributed to worsening these realities. Given this context, quality data and
analytical work are critical for stakeholders when deciding appropriate policy
responses and operational approaches.

Through this joint initiative, JDC and KoBo Inc. will work together to help
overcome these data issues. Free and easy-to-use data platforms, such as
KoBoToolbox, have proven essential in humanitarian and displacement settings,
providing access to real-time information on the ground for a broad range of
stakeholders. Therefore, the JDC is investing in the development of KoBo’s
governance and long-term sustainability as well as enhancing feature development
and capacity building for KoBoToolbox. This will strengthen KoBo Inc.’s role as
an accessible public good for data collection and analysis. Humanitarian actors
and development practitioners will benefit from an enriched user experience,
enhanced knowledge management, and improved decision-making abilities.

> “This partnership comes at a critical time for our organization as KoBoToolbox
> has recently surpassed 300 million survey submissions and our user-base
> continues to grow every day. Partnering with JDC will ensure that we continue
> to improve our services to better support the thousands of local and global
> organizations that rely on KoBoToolbox in their daily work of saving lives and
> serving displaced peoples and communities." -- Patrick Vinck, co-founder of
> KoBo.

This initiative will first develop a sustainability plan and oversight protocols
to ensure the continued development and maintenance of KoBoToolbox in
collaboration with the World Bank Group, UNHCR, and other key contributors and
stakeholders. In terms of feature development, the user interface and graphics
will be improved and upgraded and documentation will be created to outline the
importance of these changes in the forced displacement data context.
Additionally, training sessions and technical support materials will be
developed and knowledge gaps among the KoBoToolbox user community will be
identified and addressed.

This initiative recognizes the need for reliable, comparable, and timely data
for evidence-based responses to improve the lives of refugees and host
communities, as outlined by UNHCR’s Global Compact on Refugees framework. The
areas of focus will address issues around improving the quality of socioeconomic
data by the implementation of innovative tools and methods at the different
stages of data production, as identified by KoBoToolbox users in both the World
Bank Group and UNHCR. It is also an essential step towards ensuring long-term
sustainability of the platform as a free and reliable resource.

---

**About KoBo Inc.**

KoBo Inc. works to ensure that humanitarian action and initiatives promoting
peace, human rights and sustainable development are informed by high quality,
up-to-date data generated by affected communities using simple, reliable, and
secure technologies. KoBo Inc. is a non-profit organization, affiliated with the
Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, which hosts and maintains KoBoToolbox, the
world’s most popular tool for data collection, management, and visualization for
humanitarian action.

For media inquiries, contact Caitlin Reid, Communications Lead, at
[caitlin@kobotoolbox.org](mailto:caitlin@kobotoolbox.org)

**About the Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement**

The World Bank-UNHCR Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement (JDC) aims to
enhance the ability of stakeholders to make timely and evidence-informed
decisions that can improve the lives of affected people. Based in Copenhagen,
this international data center is focused on the collection, analysis, and
dissemination of primary microdata. Managed and owned equally by the World Bank
Group and UNHCR, the JDC synergizes efforts between the two founding
organizations to strengthen data systems and fill data gaps regarding refugees
and other displaced persons.

For media inquiries, reach out to
[contact@jointdatacenter.org](mailto:contact@jointdatacenter.org)
